# Getting Started

This section will guide you through the installation and usage of Speedscale **proxymock**.  **proxymock** is a free to use command-line tool that will record a live application's behavior and generate mock servers and tests. The tool is free to use for local development. No strings attached.

**proxymock** is a backend service emulator that lets you run your app as if it were in a live environment even if your backend systems are unavailable. Proxymock records your application's behavior and automatically generates mock servers (and soon inbound tests!) based on the application's behavior.

Just run your app and proxymock at the same time, and proxymock will listen to all the API and database calls coming into and out of your application. Next time you run your app, you will have the option of running the mock servers generated by proxymock instead of needing an ephemeral or cloud development environment. You don't need to change your endpoints or database connections, proxymock is a passive listener. You don't need to change your code, this process is automated.

If you want to deploy any of these mocks or tests in the cloud, you can sign up for a free account [here](https://app.speedscale.com/signup) for our enterprise service.

---

## [Installation](./installation.md) {#installation}

Learn how to install the **proxymock** CLI [here](./installation.md).

## [Quickstart](./quickstart.md) {#quickstart}

Get started with **proxymock** by following the [quickstart guide](./quickstart-cli.md). You will learn how to create mocks using a demo application built on top of [AWS DynamoDB](https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/) and [IP Stack](https://ipstack.com/). IP Stack is very generous with their free tier, but you still need to sign up for an account and are rate limited to 100 requests per day. This guide will show you how to create a realistic mock that sidesteps these limitations.

## [FAQ](./faq.md) {#faq}

This [section](./faq.md) will answer some common questions about **proxymock**.

## [Help](./help.md) {#help}

Computers are hard, but we're here to help. This [page](./help.md) details both free and paid support options.

## [How it works](../reference/index.md) {#reference}

Learn more about how **proxymock** works and how to use more advanced features.

## [Speedscale Enterprise](../../intro.md) {#enterprise}

Once you start generating snapshots of backend traffic, **proxymock** can provision these in shared cloud environments.  To do this requires [Speedscale Pro or Enterprise](https://speedscale.com/pricing), which will allow you to deploy your mocks and tests in the cloud or create them using production-grade listeners (think agents). Learn more [here](../../intro.md). This is not science fiction and no aliens were harmed in its creation.
