docs/install/kubernetes-sidecar/README.md, before:


# Speedscale Sidecar

The sidecar is used to collect data from an existing application.

### Install with Operator <a href="#install-sidecar-with-speedscale-operator" id="install-sidecar-with-speedscale-operator"></a>

The easiest way to add the sidecar to your pod and start gaining visibility is to install the Speedscale operator. Please install the [Kubernetes Operator](../kubernetes-operator.md) before moving on to the next step.

### Add the Sidecar Annotation to Your Deployment

Select the pod you'd like to monitor and add the following annotation to your deployment:

```
  annotations:
    sidecar.speedscale.com/inject: "true"
```

That's it. Next time you deploy you can check the pods with get pods.

```
kubectl -n <namespace> get pods
```

You should notice your pod count increases by one and data should be flowing.

```
NAME                            READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
carts-xxxxxxxxxx-xxxxx          2/2     Running   0          38d
```

By default, the Speedscale init container starts after any existing init containers in the pod.

### Remove the Sidecar from Your Deployment

If you already have the sidecar installed, but you need for it to be removed, you add another annotation to your deployment with the instruction to remove:

```
  annotations:
    sidecar.speedscale.com/remove: "true"
```

After deploying or patching your deployment, you should notice your pod count decrease by one and the sidecar is no longer attached.

Commit message:

[SPD-1941] speedctl install wizard (#8)
* install wizard

* no iframe

Co-authored-by: Josh Thornton <josh@speedscale.com>

docs/install/kubernetes-sidecar/README.md, after:


# Speedscale Sidecar

The sidecar is used to collect data from an existing application.

### Install Wizard <a href="#install-sidecar-with-wizard" id="install-sidecar-with-wizard"></a>

The easiest way to add the sidecar to your pod and start gaining visibility is through the [install wizard](../install-wizard.md).
The additional steps here provide instructions for manually instrumenting your services, which is necessary when manifests are sourced
from version control for example.

### Add the Sidecar Annotation to Your Deployment

Please ensure the [Kubernetes Operator](../kubernetes-operator.md) is running in your cluster before moving on.

Select the pod you'd like to monitor and add the following annotation to your deployment:

```
  annotations:
    sidecar.speedscale.com/inject: "true"
```

That's it. Next time you deploy you can check the pods with get pods.

```
kubectl -n <namespace> get pods
```

You should notice your pod count increases by one and data should be flowing.

```
NAME                            READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
carts-xxxxxxxxxx-xxxxx          2/2     Running   0          38d
```

By default, the Speedscale init container starts after any existing init containers in the pod.

### Remove the Sidecar from Your Deployment

If you already have the sidecar installed, but you need for it to be removed, you add another annotation to your deployment with the instruction to remove:

```
  annotations:
    sidecar.speedscale.com/remove: "true"
```

After deploying or patching your deployment, you should notice your pod count decrease by one and the sidecar is no longer attached.
