docs/reference/filters/README.md, before:


# Filters

Select a subset of traffic using [filters](../../reference/glossary.md#filter).

Speedscale provides the ability to filter traffic matching a pattern. Filters are used extensively by Speedscale during:

* **Traffic collection** - to eliminate repetitive or sensitive information like heartbeats, monitoring requests or PII
* **Snapshot creation** - to isolate a particular 3rd party service to mock or a test pattern
* **Assertions** - to tailor which tests are run for specific traffic patterns

:::info
The simplest way to build a forwarder filter is to assemble it in Traffic Viewer. Editing the JSON is a lot more work but you can check out the [instructions](../../guides/creating-a-snapshot.md#filtering-) here
:::

## Storage

Filters are stored in Speedscale cloud so they can be reused. Manipulate them
directly using `speedctl` commands like `pull`, `edit`, `push` and `delete`. To configure
the Forwarder to use a filter rule insert the filter's ID in the Operator or
Forwarder's `SPEEDSCALE_FILTER_RULE` environment variable.

## Debugging

Use the `speedctl analyze filter` command to test your filters against a
[snapshot](../../reference/glossary.md#snapshot) to see which RRPairs will be
filtered out. This command also works with a single RRPair downloaded from the
UI.

## Advanced

Filters can be [created in the Speedscale
app](https://dev.speedscale.com/filterRules/) but the UI does not provide
access to the full expressiveness of the filters.  If you're looking to do
something advanced it's best to get as far as you can in the UI and then modify
the JSON manually.

Commit message:

Update DLP and filter rules (#520)
* Update dlp docs

* add advanced filter docs

docs/reference/filters/README.md, after:


# Filters

Select a subset of traffic using [filters](../../reference/glossary.md#filter).

Speedscale provides the ability to filter traffic matching a pattern. Filters are used extensively by Speedscale during:

* **Traffic collection** - to eliminate repetitive or sensitive information like heartbeats, monitoring requests or PII
* **Snapshot creation** - to isolate a particular 3rd party service to mock or a test pattern
* **Assertions** - to tailor which tests are run for specific traffic patterns

:::info
The simplest way to build a forwarder filter is to assemble it in Traffic Viewer. Editing the JSON is a lot more work but you can check out the [instructions](../../guides/creating-a-snapshot.md#filtering-) here
:::

## Storage

Filters are stored in Speedscale cloud so they can be reused. Manipulate them
directly using `speedctl` commands like `pull`, `edit`, `push` and `delete`. To configure
the Forwarder to use a filter rule insert the filter's ID in the Operator or
Forwarder's `SPEEDSCALE_FILTER_RULE` environment variable.

## Debugging

Use the `speedctl analyze filter` command to test your filters against a
[snapshot](../../reference/glossary.md#snapshot) to see which RRPairs will be
filtered out. This command also works with a single RRPair downloaded from the
UI.

## Advanced

Filters can be [created in the Speedscale
app](https://app.speedscale.com/filterRules/) but the UI does not provide
access to the full expressiveness of the filters.  If you're looking to do
something advanced it's best to use the advanced filter query strings [for eg](https://app.speedscale.com/filterRules/standard#filter-rule-tab-advanced).

### Filter all

If you'd like to filter all traffic by default you can use the advanced filter query strings and create a filter that looks something like this:

```
(location CONTAINS "")
```

This will filter all traffic. You can then progressively add endpoints that you do want to capture for eg.

```
(location NOT CONTAINS "/login")
```

to only capture the login endpoint. When we add another endpoint, we use the `AND` operator.

```
(location NOT CONTAINS "/login" AND location NOT CONTAINS "/signup")
```
