docs/replay/replay-snapshot/optional-replay-annotations.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1 
title: Optional Replay Annotations
---

import ReplayAnnotations from '../../reference/_replay-annotations.mdx'

Just add annotations to your deployment and the operator will take care of the
rest.

Here are additional annotations for customizing your replay

<ReplayAnnotations />


### Tag Annotation

Here a simple example from Gitlab where we use sed to insert the build tag into the yaml before deploying to the Kubernetes test cluster:

```
deploy_speedscale:
  stage: deploy
  image: gcr.io/google.com/cloudsdktool/cloud-sdk:latest
  script:
    - sed s/CIBuild/$(echo $CI_COMMIT_TAG)/g ./k8s/moto-api.yaml > ./k8s/moto-api-corrected.yaml
    - kubectl -n mototest1 apply -f ./k8s/moto-api-corrected.yaml
```

### Secret configuration

If your application uses short lived JWTs, you need to provide a JWT secret that Speedscale can use to resign tokens. For example, if your service receives HTTP calls that contain a JWT authorization with 10 minute expiration (exp) setting, that JWT will be invalid by the time it is used for replay. To solve this, add the following annotations (insert your own secret names):

```
test.speedscale.com/secrets: "jwtsecret,jwtsecret2,jwtsecret3"
```

This will cause the Kubernetes operator to add each secret (comma separated) to the generator. Note that you need to include the secret filename to the tokenizer configuration (ask Speedscale how to do this, it isn't in the docs yet). The filename for each secret in the tokenizer will be in the format

```
/home/speedscale/secret/SECRETNAME/SECRETFILENAME
```

### Environment Cleanup

The operator can be configured to automatically delete:

* The Speedscale created components (generator, responder, etc.)
* The System Under Test (i.e. your deployment)

You can stop this behavior to retain logs, etc by adding the following annotation to your deployment:

```
test.speedscale.com/cleanup: "false"
```

Leaving this option enabled (cleanup=false) is not recommended, because the generator and scenario will be cleaned up regardless.

Commit message:

Document changes to Kubernetes annotations (#21)
* Document changes to Kubernetes annotations

Operator v2 adds, removes, and renames annotations. One has a completely
different data type.

Signed-off-by: Nolan Brubaker <nolan@speedscale.com>

docs/replay/replay-snapshot/optional-replay-annotations.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1 
title: Optional Replay Annotations
---

import ReplayAnnotations from '../../reference/_replay-annotations.mdx'

Just add annotations to your deployment and the operator will take care of the
rest.

Here are additional annotations for customizing your replay

<ReplayAnnotations />

:::note

For version 2 of the operator, be sure to check the [table of changes](../../reference/kubernetes-annotations.md#replay-annotations-1) for updated annotations.
Unless otherwise noted, these annotations can be applied prior to installing version 2 without interference.

:::


### Tag Annotation

Here a simple example from Gitlab where we use sed to insert the build tag into the yaml before deploying to the Kubernetes test cluster:

```
deploy_speedscale:
  stage: deploy
  image: gcr.io/google.com/cloudsdktool/cloud-sdk:latest
  script:
    - sed s/CIBuild/$(echo $CI_COMMIT_TAG)/g ./k8s/moto-api.yaml > ./k8s/moto-api-corrected.yaml
    - kubectl -n mototest1 apply -f ./k8s/moto-api-corrected.yaml
```

### Secret configuration

If your application uses short lived JWTs, you need to provide a JWT secret that Speedscale can use to resign tokens. For example, if your service receives HTTP calls that contain a JWT authorization with 10 minute expiration (exp) setting, that JWT will be invalid by the time it is used for replay. To solve this, add the following annotations (insert your own secret names):

```
test.speedscale.com/secrets: "jwtsecret,jwtsecret2,jwtsecret3"
```

This will cause the Kubernetes operator to add each secret (comma separated) to the generator. Note that you need to include the secret filename to the tokenizer configuration (ask Speedscale how to do this, it isn't in the docs yet). The filename for each secret in the tokenizer will be in the format

```
/home/speedscale/secret/SECRETNAME/SECRETFILENAME
```

### Environment Cleanup

The operator can be configured to automatically delete:

* The Speedscale created components (generator, responder, etc.)
* The System Under Test (i.e. your deployment)

You can stop this behavior to retain logs, etc by adding the following annotation to your deployment:

```
test.speedscale.com/cleanup: "false"
```

Leaving this option enabled (cleanup=false) is not recommended, because the generator and scenario will be cleaned up regardless.
