docs/install/cli-speedctl.md, before:


# CLI speedctl

The speedctl command line tool is used to interact with Speedscale from your own terminal. `speedctl` is the Speedscale
programmable API and the primary way to perform setup actions like installing the Speedscale Operator, generating manifests, etc.

### Install

Install or upgrade `speedctl`:

```
sh -c "$(curl -Lfs https://downloads.speedscale.com/speedctl/install)"
```

Or via [Homebrew](https://brew.sh):

```
brew install speedscale/tap/speedctl
```

### Initialization <a href="#part-ii-run-speedctl-initialization" id="part-ii-run-speedctl-initialization"></a>

If this is your first time downloading `speedctl` initialization may happen automatically.  Otherwise bootstrap your local environment:

```
speedctl init
```

You will need to get your API key from your [Profile Page](https://app.speedscale.com/profile). Copy the API key and paste when prompted.

![](./ScreenShot2021-08-13at10.56.03AM.png)

### Verify Installation

Verify your installation:

```
speedctl check
```

Commit message:

[SPD-2628] Reverse installer order (#48)
* [SPD-2628] mention brew install in docs

* [SPD-2628] reverse installer order

Co-authored-by: Shaun Duncan <shaun@speedscale.com>

docs/install/cli-speedctl.md, after:


# CLI speedctl

The speedctl command line tool is used to interact with Speedscale from your own terminal. `speedctl` is the Speedscale
programmable API and the primary way to perform setup actions like installing the Speedscale Operator, generating manifests, etc.

### Install

Install or upgrade `speedctl` via [Homebrew](https://brew.sh):

```
brew install speedscale/tap/speedctl
```

Or via the install script:

```
sh -c "$(curl -Lfs https://downloads.speedscale.com/speedctl/install)"
```

Or via [Homebrew](https://brew.sh):

```
brew install speedscale/tap/speedctl
```

### Initialization <a href="#part-ii-run-speedctl-initialization" id="part-ii-run-speedctl-initialization"></a>

If this is your first time downloading `speedctl` initialization may happen automatically.  Otherwise bootstrap your local environment:

```
speedctl init
```

You will need to get your API key from your [Profile Page](https://app.speedscale.com/profile). Copy the API key and paste when prompted.

![](./ScreenShot2021-08-13at10.56.03AM.png)

### Verify Installation

Verify your installation:

```
speedctl check
```
