docs/guides/cicd.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 15
title: CI/CD
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# CI/CD

Integrate Speedscale into your CI/CD workflow to enable high-velocity
deployment with confidence.

Run Speedscale after your build and unit tests, but before deploying to
production.

![CI Pipeline](./cicd-flow.png)

Adding anything to your CI/CD pipeline generally involves the same 3 steps:
1. adding a step to your **pipeline**
1. setting the right **environment** variables
1. executing the right **script** to perform a desired action

Let's walk through these steps for Speedscale.

## Prerequisites

In order to integrate Speedscale into your CI/CD you will need:

- A Kubernetes cluster running the Speedscale Operator
- At least one registered service, visible at https://app.speedscale.com

Direct access to your Kubernetes cluster is optional.

## The Pipeline

The **speedscale.sh** script can be implemented a few ways.  Choose the one that
makes the most sense for your environment.

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="circleci" label="CircleCI">

```yaml
version: '2.1'
orbs:
  kubernetes: circleci/kubernetes@1.3.1 # <--- if using kubectl - see below
jobs:
  speedscale:
    docker:
      - image: 'cimg/python:3.10'
    environment:
      SERVICE: my-service # <--- Speedscale environment variables - see below
    steps:
      - kubernetes/install-kubectl: # <--- if using kubectl - see below
          kubectl-version: << parameters.kubectl-version >>
      - run:
          command: |
            ./speedscale.sh # <--- Speedscale script - see below
```

See a full
[config.yml](https://github.com/kenahrens/spd-replay/blob/main/.circleci/config.yml)
for more context.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="github" label="GitHub">

```yaml
name: CI with Speedscale
on:
  push:
    branches:
      - main
  pull_request:
    branches:
      - main

env:
  SERVICE: my-service # <--- Speedscale environment variables - see below

jobs:
  build:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
    - name: Checkout
      uses: actions/checkout@v3

    # You'll probably want to build, unit test, push image, etc. here
    - name: Build
      run: docker build -t gcr.io/myimage:latest .  && docker push gcr.io/myimage:latest
  test:
    name: Replay
    needs: build
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v3

      - name: Speedscale replay
        run: |
          ./speedscale.sh # <--- Speedscale script - see below
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="gitlab" label="GitLab">

```yaml
stages:
  - test
  - build
  - speedscale

# test code before image build
test-code:
  stage: test
  image: ubuntu
  script:
    - ./test.sh
  only:
    - branches
  except:
    - master

# build and push image
build:
  stage: build
  image: ubuntu
  script:
    - docker build -t gcr.io/myimage:latest .
    - docker push gcr.io/myimage:latest

# test build with speedscale
speedscale-replay:
  stage: speedscale
  image: ubuntu
  environment:
    SERVICE: my-service # <--- Speedscale environment variables - see below
  script:
    - ./speedscale.sh # <--- Speedscale script - see below

```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="jenkins" label="Jenkins">

```
#!groovy

pipeline {
  agent any

  environment {
      SERVICE = 'my-service' // <--- Speedscale environment variables - see below
  }
  stages {
    stage('speedscale') {
      steps {
        sh 'sh speedscale.sh' // <--- Speedscale script - see below
      }
    }
  }
  post{
    success{
      echo "======== pipeline executed successfully ========"
    }
    failure{
      echo "======== pipeline execution failed ========"
    }
  }
}
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="azure" label="Azure DevOps">

```yaml
trigger: 
 - main

variables:
- name: SERVICE # <--- Speedscale environment variables - see below
  value: my-service

pool:
  vmImage: 'ubuntu-latest'

steps: 
  # get kubectl
  - task: KubectlInstaller@0 # <--- if using kubectl - see below
    displayName: 'kubectl installed'
    inputs:
      kubectlVersion: 'latest'
  # run replay
  - bash |
      ./speedscale.sh # <--- Speedscale script - see below
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>


## The Environment

Set these environment variables to configure the replay, either in the script
or through the CI/CD platform:

| Variable               | Example Value | Description |
| ---------------------- | ------------- | ----------- |
| CLUSTER                | my-cluster    | Name of the cluster running the Speedscale Operator. |
| SERVICE                | my-service    | Service name as displayed at https://app.speedscale.com. |
| NAMESPACE              | my-ns         | Kubernetes namespace where your service is running. |
| TEST_CONFIG            | standard      | Test configuration defined at https://app.speedscale.com/config. |
| SNAPSHOT_ID            | latest        | Use the latest snapshot for this service. |
| TIMEOUT                | 10m           | Maximum amount of time to wait for replay to complete. |
| BUILD_TAG              | v1.2.3        | Identifies the version of your service being tested. |

## The Script

Let's fill in the **speedscale.sh** script shown above. Choose the
implementation that makes the most sense for your environment.

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="speedctl" label="Without Cluster Access" default>

If you do not have cluster access the replay can be started and validated with
[speedctl](../setup/install/cli.md).

In addition to the other environment variables, your speedscale API key should
be set (securely) for authentication:


| Variable           | Example Value | Description |
| ------------------ | ------------- | ----------- |
| SPEEDSCALE_API_KEY | 2ca17dbe5b3b7a4f15f926b83d1ed567a98d38a3e47be | Service account API key created from https://app.speedscale.com/tenant |

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env sh

if [ -z "$SPEEDSCALE_API_KEY" ];then
  echo "SPEEDSCALE_API_KEY is required"
  exit 1
fi

echo "installing speedctl"
sh -c "$(curl -Lfs https://downloads.speedscale.com/speedctl/install)"

echo "creating replay for service $SERVICE in cluster $CLUSTER in namespace $NAMESPACE"
REPORT_ID=$(speedctl infra replay "$SERVICE" \
  --cluster "$CLUSTER" \
  --namespace "$NAMESPACE" \
  --test-config-id "$TEST_CONFIG" \
  --snapshot-id "$SNAPSHOT_ID" \
  --build-tag "$BUILD_TAG")

echo "waiting for replay with report ID $REPORT_ID to complete"
speedctl wait report "$REPORT_ID" \
  --timeout "$TIMEOUT"

# exit script with the code from wait report command
exit $?
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="kubectl" label="With Cluster Access">

If you have cluster access from your pipeline the replay can be started and
validated with [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/).

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env sh

# generate a unique replay name
RANDOM=$$
REPLAY_NAME="${SERVICE}-replay-${RANDOM}"

cat << EOF > replay.yaml
apiVersion: speedscale.com/v1
kind: TrafficReplay
metadata:
  name: "$REPLAY_NAME"
spec:
  snapshotID: "$SNAPSHOT_ID"
  testConfigID: "$TEST_CONFIG"
  workloadRef:
    kind: Deployment
    name: "$SERVICE"
  buildTag: "$BUILD_TAG"
EOF

echo "created traffic replay CR yaml"
cat replay.yaml

echo "applying traffic replay CR to the cluster"
kubectl apply \
  --namespace "$NAMESPACE" \
  --filename replay.yaml

echo "waiting for replay to complete"
if kubectl wait "replay/${REPLAY_NAME}" \
  --namespace "$NAMESPACE" \
  --for condition=Ready \
  --timeout "$TIMEOUT"; then
  status=$(kubectl get replay/${REPLAY_NAME} -n "$NAMESPACE" -o json | jq '.status.conditions[-1].message' -r)
else
  echo "timed out waiting for traffic replay"
  exit 1
fi

echo "Report Status: $status"

case "${status}" in
  "Failed: Missed Goals")
    exit 1
    ;;
  *)
    exit 0
    ;;
esac
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Need Help?

Let us know on the [community Slack](https://slack.speedscale.com) if
instructions for your deploy system are not included here.

Commit message:

Add path to cicd step guide

docs/guides/cicd.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 15
title: CI/CD
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# CI/CD

Integrate Speedscale into your CI/CD workflow to enable high-velocity
deployment with confidence.

Run Speedscale after your build and unit tests, but before deploying to
production.

![CI Pipeline](./cicd-flow.png)

Adding anything to your CI/CD pipeline generally involves the same 3 steps:
1. adding a step to your **pipeline**
1. setting the right **environment** variables
1. executing the right **script** to perform a desired action

Let's walk through these steps for Speedscale.

## Prerequisites

In order to integrate Speedscale into your CI/CD you will need:

- A Kubernetes cluster running the Speedscale Operator
- At least one registered service, visible at https://app.speedscale.com

Direct access to your Kubernetes cluster is optional.

## The Pipeline

:::info
Every CI system has a different way of setting the `PATH` for actions, make sure `~/.speedscale` is in the path after running the installer script.
:::

The **speedscale.sh** script can be implemented a few ways.  Choose the one that
makes the most sense for your environment.

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="circleci" label="CircleCI">

<!---
https://support.circleci.com/hc/en-us/articles/360060789052-Unable-to-Override-PATH-or-NVM-DIR-Environment-Variables-with-Ubuntu-20-04-Machine-Images
---->

```yaml
version: '2.1'
orbs:
  kubernetes: circleci/kubernetes@1.3.1 # <--- if using kubectl - see below
jobs:
  speedscale:
    docker:
      - image: 'cimg/python:3.10'
    environment:
      SERVICE: my-service # <--- Speedscale environment variables - see below
    steps:
      - kubernetes/install-kubectl: # <--- if using kubectl - see below
          kubectl-version: << parameters.kubectl-version >>
      - run:
          command: |
            export PATH=${PATH}:${HOME}/.speedscale
            ./speedscale.sh # <--- Speedscale script - see below
```

See a full
[config.yml](https://github.com/kenahrens/spd-replay/blob/main/.circleci/config.yml)
for more context.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="github" label="GitHub">

<!---
https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/workflow-commands-for-github-actions#adding-a-system-path
--->

```yaml
name: CI with Speedscale
on:
  push:
    branches:
      - main
  pull_request:
    branches:
      - main

env:
  SERVICE: my-service # <--- Speedscale environment variables - see below

jobs:
  build:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
    - name: Checkout
      uses: actions/checkout@v3

    # You'll probably want to build, unit test, push image, etc. here
    - name: Build
      run: docker build -t gcr.io/myimage:latest .  && docker push gcr.io/myimage:latest
  test:
    name: Replay
    needs: build
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v3

      - name: Speedscale replay
        run: |
          export PATH=${PATH}:${HOME}/.speedscale
          echo "~/.speedscale" >> ${GITHUB_PATH}
          ./speedscale.sh # <--- Speedscale script - see below
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="gitlab" label="GitLab">

```yaml
stages:
  - test
  - build
  - speedscale

# test code before image build
test-code:
  stage: test
  image: ubuntu
  script:
    - ./test.sh
  only:
    - branches
  except:
    - master

# build and push image
build:
  stage: build
  image: ubuntu
  script:
    - docker build -t gcr.io/myimage:latest .
    - docker push gcr.io/myimage:latest

# test build with speedscale
speedscale-replay:
  stage: speedscale
  image: ubuntu
  environment:
    SERVICE: my-service # <--- Speedscale environment variables - see below
  script:
    - export PATH=${PATH}:${HOME}/.speedscale
    - ./speedscale.sh # <--- Speedscale script - see below

```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="jenkins" label="Jenkins">

```groovy
#!groovy

pipeline {
  agent any

  environment {
      SERVICE = 'my-service' // <--- Speedscale environment variables - see below
      PATH = "${env.PATH}:${env.WORKSPACE}/.speedscale"
  }
  stages {
    stage('speedscale') {
      steps {
        sh 'sh speedscale.sh' // <--- Speedscale script - see below
      }
    }
  }
  post{
    success{
      echo "======== pipeline executed successfully ========"
    }
    failure{
      echo "======== pipeline execution failed ========"
    }
  }
}
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="azure" label="Azure DevOps">

<!---
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/scripts/logging-commands?view=azure-devops&tabs=bash#prependpath-prepend-a-path-to-the--path-environment-variable
--->

```yaml
trigger:
 - main

variables:
- name: SERVICE # <--- Speedscale environment variables - see below
  value: my-service

pool:
  vmImage: 'ubuntu-latest'

steps:
  # get kubectl
  - task: KubectlInstaller@0 # <--- if using kubectl - see below
    displayName: 'kubectl installed'
    inputs:
      kubectlVersion: 'latest'
  # run replay
  - bash |
      echo "##vso[task.prependpath]~/.speedscale"
      export PATH=${PATH}:${HOME}/.speedscale
      ./speedscale.sh # <--- Speedscale script - see below
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>


## The Environment

Set these environment variables to configure the replay, either in the script
or through the CI/CD platform:

| Variable               | Example Value | Description |
| ---------------------- | ------------- | ----------- |
| CLUSTER                | my-cluster    | Name of the cluster running the Speedscale Operator. |
| SERVICE                | my-service    | Service name as displayed at https://app.speedscale.com. |
| NAMESPACE              | my-ns         | Kubernetes namespace where your service is running. |
| TEST_CONFIG            | standard      | Test configuration defined at https://app.speedscale.com/config. |
| SNAPSHOT_ID            | latest        | Use the latest snapshot for this service. |
| TIMEOUT                | 10m           | Maximum amount of time to wait for replay to complete. |
| BUILD_TAG              | v1.2.3        | Identifies the version of your service being tested. |

## The Script

Let's fill in the **speedscale.sh** script shown above. Choose the
implementation that makes the most sense for your environment.

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="speedctl" label="Without Cluster Access" default>

If you do not have cluster access the replay can be started and validated with
[speedctl](../setup/install/cli.md).

In addition to the other environment variables, your speedscale API key should
be set (securely) for authentication:


| Variable           | Example Value | Description |
| ------------------ | ------------- | ----------- |
| SPEEDSCALE_API_KEY | 2ca17dbe5b3b7a4f15f926b83d1ed567a98d38a3e47be | Service account API key created from https://app.speedscale.com/tenant |

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env sh

if [ -z "$SPEEDSCALE_API_KEY" ];then
  echo "SPEEDSCALE_API_KEY is required"
  exit 1
fi

echo "installing speedctl"
sh -c "$(curl -Lfs https://downloads.speedscale.com/speedctl/install)"

echo "creating replay for service $SERVICE in cluster $CLUSTER in namespace $NAMESPACE"
REPORT_ID=$(speedctl infra replay "$SERVICE" \
  --cluster "$CLUSTER" \
  --namespace "$NAMESPACE" \
  --test-config-id "$TEST_CONFIG" \
  --snapshot-id "$SNAPSHOT_ID" \
  --build-tag "$BUILD_TAG")

echo "waiting for replay with report ID $REPORT_ID to complete"
speedctl wait report "$REPORT_ID" \
  --timeout "$TIMEOUT"

# exit script with the code from wait report command
exit $?
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="kubectl" label="With Cluster Access">

If you have cluster access from your pipeline the replay can be started and
validated with [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/).

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env sh

# generate a unique replay name
RANDOM=$$
REPLAY_NAME="${SERVICE}-replay-${RANDOM}"

cat << EOF > replay.yaml
apiVersion: speedscale.com/v1
kind: TrafficReplay
metadata:
  name: "$REPLAY_NAME"
spec:
  snapshotID: "$SNAPSHOT_ID"
  testConfigID: "$TEST_CONFIG"
  workloadRef:
    kind: Deployment
    name: "$SERVICE"
  buildTag: "$BUILD_TAG"
EOF

echo "created traffic replay CR yaml"
cat replay.yaml

echo "applying traffic replay CR to the cluster"
kubectl apply \
  --namespace "$NAMESPACE" \
  --filename replay.yaml

echo "waiting for replay to complete"
if kubectl wait "replay/${REPLAY_NAME}" \
  --namespace "$NAMESPACE" \
  --for condition=Ready \
  --timeout "$TIMEOUT"; then
  status=$(kubectl get replay/${REPLAY_NAME} -n "$NAMESPACE" -o json | jq '.status.conditions[-1].message' -r)
else
  echo "timed out waiting for traffic replay"
  exit 1
fi

echo "Report Status: $status"

case "${status}" in
  "Failed: Missed Goals")
    exit 1
    ;;
  *)
    exit 0
    ;;
esac
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Need Help?

Let us know on the [community Slack](https://slack.speedscale.com) if
instructions for your deploy system are not included here.
