docs/proxymock/reference/lifecycle.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Snapshot Lifecycle

A snapshot is a collection of request and response pairs stored in a file. Snapshots are created by recording a live environment or by importing data from another source like a Postman collection or a Wiremock configuration. On your local machine, you can find your snapshots in the `~/.speedscale/data/snapshots` directory. See [lifecycle](./repo.md) to learn more about how **proxymock** manages snapshots.

## Mock Server Lifecycle

Speedscale's mock server uses the outbound (egress) traffic of your application to create a mock server. This process is called "re-analysis" and it only needs to take place when you're ready to use the mocks. The analysis process takes the rrpairs in your `raw.jsonl` file and creates a file titled `reaction.jsonl` that configures the mock server with known responses. If you modify the reaction file manually it will work until re-analysis and then be overwritten. Only the `raw.jsonl` and metadata files are meant to be edited by humans.

Each request received by the mock server is translated into a signature to make it quickly identifiable. If you inspect the `reaction.jsonl` file you will see that each request is translated into a simplified signature (like a hash map of identifiers) and the response is stored in the `http.res` JSON object. Modifying the `reaction.json` file directly is not a good idea because it will be overwritten by the re-analysis process. Instead, find your rrpair in the `raw.jsonl` file and modify the request or response there.

## Updating the Mock Server

When you edit the rrpairs in the tree pane and save a particular rrpair, the `raw.jsonl` is automatically updated. You must now trigger the re-analysis process to update the `reaction.jsonl` file. This is done by clicking the `Learn` button in the `PROXYMOCK` pane. The mock server will automatically restart.

The rrpair format is not explicitly documented (yet) but it's fairly easy to pick our fields you might want to change. Just make sure to change each occurrence of the field if it appears more than once in the data.

For example, if you want to change the URL of a single rrpair, you can simply edit the `location`, `http.req.url` and `http.req.uri` fields on a single line in the `raw.jsonl` file. Future versions of proxymock will( likely have a UI for editing the rrpair. Speedscale Enterprise provides a data modification engine called [transforms](../../transform/overview.md) that can be used to modify the rrpair data using automation. Nothing stops you from manually modifying the raw.jsonl in **proxymock**.

:::tip
The `Learn` button is only available when you have an active snapshot.
:::

## Changing the Active Snapshot

You can change the active snapshot by clicking the `Import` button in the `PROXYMOCK` Editor Command pane. This will open a dialog where you can select a different snapshot. The mock server will automatically restart. Enterprise users can also use `proxymock pull` to pull a snapshot from another environment.

## Merging Snapshots

Combining snapshots is useful if you want to create a mock server that combines data from multiple environments or recordings. On your local desktop you can `si`mply copy/paste two raw.jsonl files together using the text editor. The mock server will automatically re-order the rrpairs based on time stamp when you click the `Learn` button.

[Speedscale Enterprise](https://speedscale.com/enterprise/) allows you to merge snapshots from different environments using automated commands and is able to re-order intelligently.

## Sharing Snapshots

Snapshots are just files and if you copy/paste the entire directory and metadata to another machine it will work. **proxymock** does support being embedded into a CI/CD pipeline but requires a commercial license. You can learn more about `proxymock push` and `proxymock pull` in the [Speedscale Enterprise](../../intro.md) documentation.

Commit message:

[SPD-9563] rrpair files (#478)
* proxymock wording, formatting, diagrams, etc.

* changes from feedback

* rrpair files

* fix redirect

* faq wording

* minor wording changes

---------

Co-authored-by: Josh Thornton <josh@speedscale.com>

docs/proxymock/reference/lifecycle.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Snapshot Lifecycle

A [snapshot](/reference/glossary.md#snapshot) is a collection of [request and response pairs](/reference/glossary.md#rrpair) stored in a file. Snapshots are created by recording a live environment or by importing data from another source like a Postman collection or a Wiremock configuration. Snapshots can be imported, which expands the collection into individual files, much like unzipping a `.zip` archive. Work with the files locally and then export them to a snapshot again when you need to share them with a friend.

## Mock Server Lifecycle

Speedscale's [mock server](/reference/glossary.md#mock-server) uses the outbound (egress) traffic of your application to create a mock server. This process is called "analysis" and it only needs to take place when you're ready to use the [mocks](/reference/glossary.md#mock). The analysis process takes the tests and mock files in a directory and creates artifacts from them, stored in a Speedscale-specific directory at `~/.speedscale/data/snapshots/`, but you shouldn't need to worry about those details. Only the test and mock files in your local directories are meant to be edited by humans.

Each request received by the mock server is translated into a [signature](/proxymock/reference/signature/) to make it quickly identifiable. This is visible in mock files if you search for "signature". The signature is a map of identifiers which can be matched against incoming requests. When a request matches the associated response is sent back to your app.

## Updating the Mock Server

To update the mock server you will need to run `proxymock analyze` to build mocks into a form that can be used the next time `proxymock run` is run. See `proxymock inspect` to understand which mocks need analysis.

The mock format is not explicitly documented (yet) but it's fairly easy to pick our fields you might want to change. Just make sure to change each occurrence of the field if it appears more than once in the data.

For example, if you want to change the URL of a single mock, you can simply edit the `location`, `http.req.url` and `http.req.uri` fields on a single line in the `raw.jsonl` file. Future versions of proxymock will likely have a UI for editing the mock. Speedscale Enterprise provides a data modification engine called [transforms](../../transform/overview.md) that can be used to modify the mock data using automation. Nothing stops you from manually modifying the raw.jsonl in **proxymock**.

## Sharing Mocks

Snapshots are just files and if you copy/paste the entire directory and metadata to another machine it will work. **proxymock** does support being embedded into a CI/CD pipeline but requires a commercial license. You can learn more about `proxymock push` and `proxymock pull` in the [Speedscale Enterprise](../../intro.md) documentation.
