---
title: Repository
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Repository

**proxymock** acts like a distributed version control system that helps manage snapshot changes on your local machine. It operates using two main repositories:
1. Local Repository – Exists on your machine and is maintained by **proxymock**.
1. Remote Repository (optional) – Exists in the cloud. This is only applicable if you are using Speedscale Enterprise. The free **proxymock** extension does not use this unless you have an enterprise API key.

How **proxymock** Manages the Local Repository
* When you run `proxymock init` (or start the IDE extension), proxymock creates a `.speedscale` directory in your home directly, initializing a local repository.
* Your local repository consists of:
    * Working Snapshots: The actual traffic recordings you are working with.
    * Reports: Analysis reports generated from running the snapshots (requires Speedscale Enterprise).
    * Configuration: Test configs and other configuration files used for replay (requires Speedscale Enterprise).
* Typical Workflow:
	1. Record or import snapshots – Importing a snapshot adds it to your local repository.
	2. Stage Changes – Modify the files in the working directory directly or using the IDE extension.
	3. Push Changes (`speedctl push snapshot`) – Push the snapshot to the remote repository (requires Speedscale Enterprise).

```
<snapshot UID>.json

<snapshot UID>
├── raw.jsonl
├── action.jsonl
└── reaction.jsonl
```

* `snapshot UID.json` contains metadata about the snapshot.
* `raw.jsonl` contains the request and response pairs.
* `action.jsonl` contains and tests derived from the raw file.
* `reaction.jsonl` contains the mock server configuration derived from the raw file.

The action and reaction files are generated by the `speedctl learn` command and should not be modified directly.

Pushing Changes
* `speedctl push snapshot` or `speedctl push report`
* Sends changes from the local repository to the remote repository.
* Ensures collaboration by updating the shared project.

Pulling Changes
* `speedctl pull snapshot` or `speedctl pull report`
* Retrieves updates from the remote repository and merges them into your local repository.
* Helps synchronize your work with teammates’ changes.

Summary
	1.	Local Repo: Stores your snapshots, reports and configuration.
	2.	Remote Repo: Central place for sharing and collaboration.
	3.	Pushing: Uploads commits to the remote repo.
	4.	Pulling: Downloads updates from the remote.

For further questions, please join our [slack](https://slack.speedscale.com).
