docs/reference/_replay-annotations.mdx, before:

| Annotation                             | Description                                                                                                                                           |
| -------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `test.speedscale.com/tag`              | Link a unique tag, build hash, etc. to the Speedscale report. That way you can connect the report results to the version of the code that was tested. |
| `test.speedscale.com/deployResponder`  | Set to `"true"` to deploy the responder. (default: false)                                                                                             |
| `test.speedscale.com/deployGenerator`  | Set to `"false"` to not deploy the generator (default: true)                                                                                          |
| `test.speedscale.com/secrets`          | Use this setting to provide a list of secrets for the replay system to load (ex: JWT passwords).                                                      |
| `test.speedscale.com/cleanup`          | Setting to `"false"`will not remove the system under test.                                                                                            |
| `test.speedscale.com/logCollection`    | Set to `"true"` to collect logs from the system under test (default: false).                                                                          |
| `test.speedscale.com/responderLowData` | Set to "true" to force the responder into a high efficiency/low data output mode. This is ideal for high volume performance tests.                    |

Commit message:

Add speedscale operator v2 upgrade & install steps (do not merge til operator v2 is live) (#24)
* Add speedscale operator v2 upgrade process

Signed-off-by: Nolan Brubaker <nolan@speedscale.com>

* Link to GitOps section of install guide

Signed-off-by: Nolan Brubaker <nolan@speedscale.com>

* Add GitOps & Helm upgrade steps

Signed-off-by: Nolan Brubaker <nolan@speedscale.com>

* Correct indentation level

Signed-off-by: Nolan Brubaker <nolan@speedscale.com>

* Move upgrade options into tabs

Putting the options into tabs makes it more obvious that these are
exclusive options

Signed-off-by: Nolan Brubaker <nolan@speedscale.com>

* Point users to the Helm Chart docs for that option

* Update installation options

* Update replay docs

* Create namespace since operator no longer does

Signed-off-by: Nolan Brubaker <nolan@speedscale.com>

* Update based on Ken's feedback

Signed-off-by: Nolan Brubaker <nolan@speedscale.com>

* Add quotes around the annotation value

* Add additonal upgrade steps

* Fix link for tokenizers and transforms

Signed-off-by: Nolan Brubaker <nolan@speedscale.com>

* Remove Helm option for now, and re-order gitops

Signed-off-by: Nolan Brubaker <nolan@speedscale.com>

* Create new upgrade top section for operator upgrading

Signed-off-by: Nolan Brubaker <nolan@speedscale.com>

* Update annotations to reflect v2 usage

Signed-off-by: Nolan Brubaker <nolan@speedscale.com>

* Reorder upgrade submenu

Signed-off-by: Nolan Brubaker <nolan@speedscale.com>

* Add another annotate command example

Signed-off-by: Nolan Brubaker <nolan@speedscale.com>

docs/reference/_replay-annotations.mdx, after:

| Annotation                             | Description   |
| -------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| `replay.speedscale.com/env-id`           | Name of the `TrafficReplay` Custom Resource tied to a replay for this workload |
| `replay.speedscale.com/snapshot-id`      | ID of the Snapshot that is used to recreate traffic. |
| `replay.speedscale.com/testconfig-id`    | ID of the test configuration used to recreate to traffic. (Default: `standard`)|
| `replay.speedscale.com/build-tag`        | Link a unique tag, build hash, etc. to the Speedscale report. That way you can connect the report results to the version of the code that was tested. |
| `replay.speedscale.com/mode`             | Defines how a replay will test the system. Values are `full`, `responder-only`, and `generator-only` (default: `full`). `full` will deploy generators to recreate observed requests, and responders to recreate observed responses. `responder-only` will create an infinitely running replay that responds to requests with observed responses. `generator-only` will recreate obeserved requests to the system under replay. |
| `replay.speedscale.com/timeout`        | Specifies a timeout for a replay. Ignored when replay mode is `responder-only` |
| `replay.speedscale.com/secrets`          | Use this setting to provide a list of secrets for the replay system to load (ex: JWT passwords). |
| `replay.speedscale.com/cleanup`          | Cleans up provisioned resources after a traffic replay. Possible values: `inventory`, `all`, `none` (default: `inventory`). `inventory` will remove objects related to Speedscale's replay of traffic once finished, as well as reverting changes to the workload. `all` removes all replay objects, as well as the system under test. `none` will leave all resources on the system after a test run. |
| `replay.speedscale.com/log-collection`    | Set to `"true"` to collect logs from the system under test (default: false). |
| `replay.speedscale.com/responder-low-data` | Set to "true" to force the responder into a high efficiency/low data output mode. This is ideal for high volume performance tests. |
| `replay.speedscale.com/timeout` | Specifies a timeout for a replay. Ignored when replay mode is `responder-only` |

:::note

The operator will remove all listed replay annotations from the workload during admission review and move them into an associated `TrafficReplay` Custom Resource.
This prevents side effects such as the operator observing and executing the same replay after it has finished.
It also allows subsequent runs of the same replay by applying the same manifests, or incorporating the annotations into a GitOps workflow.

:::
