docs/reference/_sidecar-annotations.mdx, before:

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/inject`

Add the sidecar to your: deployment, job, stateful set or daemon set.

- Accepted Values:
  - `true`
  - `false` (default)

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/insert-init-first`

Add Speedscale's init container as the first in the list on the target workload.

- Accepted Values:
  - `true`
  - `false` (default)

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/capture-mode`

Sidecar capture mode. The only supported value is `proxy` (default)

- Accepted Values
  - `proxy` (default)

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/capture-node-traffic`

Configure inbound traffic originating from underlying Kubernetes node on which a pod is running to be routed
through the proxy. The default behavior is to ignore inbound Kubernetes node traffic (e.g. readiness and
liveness checks). Only valid if `capture-mode` is `proxy` and `proxy-type` is `transparent`, ignored
otherwise.

- Accepted Values:
  - `true`
  - `false` (default)

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/host-resolution`

Configure how the sidecar determines a hostname for requests to IP addresses for which there is no clear way
to determine the target host, such as undecrypted TLS and unknown protocols. By default, the sidecar uses a
`smart` host resolution mode that maps IP addresses to hostnames based on observed DNS A record requests.
Alternatively, if set to `standard`, host resolution is done with a DNS PTR record query. Setting this to
`none` will disable automatic host resolution.

:::caution Important
Using `standard` mode host resolution is not guaranteed to discover a hostname for an IP address nor is
it guaranteed to be accurate if it does, as it requires a PTR record to exist for the address.
:::

- Accepted Values:
  - `smart` (default)
  - `standard`
  - `none`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/proxy-type`

Type of proxy the sidecar should operate as. Only valid if `capture-mode` is `proxy`, ignored otherwise. See
[proxy modes](/setup/sidecar/proxy-modes/) for more information on how each mode functions.

- Accepted Values:
  - `transparent` (default)
  - `reverse`
  - `forward`
  - `dual`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/proxy-protocol`

Set the protocol clients should use when connecting to the sidecar when operating in one of `reverse`,
`forward`, or `dual` proxy types. This setting is ignored if `proxy-type` is `transparent`. See
[proxy modes](/setup/sidecar/proxy-modes/) for more information.

- Accepted Values:
  - `tcp` (only valid for `reverse` proxies)
  - `http` (default)
  - `socks`
  - `tcp:http` (only valid for `dual` proxies)
  - `tcp:socks` (only valid for `dual` proxies)

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/proxy-host`

Sets the host to where the sidecar should forward inbound traffic. This is only valid when `capture-mode` is
set to `proxy` and if `proxy-type` is either `reverse` or `dual`. Ignored otherwise.

- Default: `localhost`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/proxy-port`

Sets the port to where the sidecar should forward inbound traffic. This is only valid when `capture-mode` is
set to `proxy` and if `proxy-type` is either `reverse` or `dual`. Ignored otherwise.

- Default: `80`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/proxy-in-port`

Sets the listening port exposed by the sidecar for proxying inbound traffic. Only valid when operating as a
reverse proxy with proxy types `transparent`, `reverse`, and `dual`.

- Default: `4143`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/proxy-out-port`

Sets the listening port exposed by the sidecar for proxying outbound traffic. Only valid when operating as a
forward proxy with proxy types `transparent`, `forward`, and `dual`.

- Default: `4140`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/tls-out`

Enables or disables TLS outbound interception and unwrapping. If disabled, encrypted traffic will not be
viewable in the Speedscale UI. See [TLS](/setup/sidecar/tls/) for more information.

- Accepted Values:
  - `true`
  - `false` (default)

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/tls-in-secret`

Kubernetes [TLS secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/#tls-secrets) containing
the TLS private key and public certificate that should be used for inbound client requests. Setting this
enables inbound TLS interception and unwrapping. See [TLS](/setup/sidecar/tls/) for more information.

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/tls-in-private`

Filename of the TLS private key used when `tls-in-secret` is configured. Ignored otherwise.

- Default: `tls.key`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/tls-in-public`

Filename of the TLS public certificate used when `tls-in-secret` is configured. Ignored otherwise.

- Default: `tls.crt`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/tls-mutual-secret`

Kubernetes [TLS secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/#tls-secrets) containing the
client TLS private key and public certificate that should be used for outbound requests requiring mutual TLS.
Do not set this unless your application uses mutual TLS. See [TLS](/setup/sidecar/tls/) for more information.

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/tls-mutual-private`

Filename of the TLS private key used when `tls-mutual-secret` is configured. Ignored otherwise.

- Default: `tls.key`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/tls-mutual-public`

Filename of the TLS public certificate used when `tls-mutual-secret` is configured. Ignored otherwise.

- Default: `tls.crt`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/ignore-src-ips`

Comma separated list of inbound IPv4 addresses or IPv4 CIDR blocks that should be **excluded** from the
traffic captured by the sidecar. Inbound requests from these sources will bypass the proxy entirely and
will route directly to your application. Only valid if `capture-mode` is `proxy` and `proxy-type` is
`transparent`, ignored otherwise.

- Example: `sidecar.speedscale.com/ignore-src-ips: "10.10.0.40,10.200.10.0/24"`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/ignore-src-hosts`

Comma separated list of hostnames whose traffic should be **excluded** from the traffic captured by the
sidecar. Inbound requests from these sources will bypass the proxy entirely and will route directly to
your application. Only valid if `capture-mode` is `proxy` and `proxy-type` is `transparent`, ignored
otherwise.

:::caution
`iptables` performs a DNS lookup when adding hostnames to rules and only does so **once** when the rule is
added. DNS changes that modify a host's source IP address will cause its traffic to no longer bypass the
sidecar.
:::

- Example: `sidecar.speedscale.com/ignore-src-hosts: "example.com,mysvc.internal"`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/ignore-dst-ips`

Comma separated list of outbound IPv4 addresses or IPv4 CIDR blocks that should be **excluded** from the
traffic captured by the sidecar. Outbound requests to these destinations will bypass the proxy entirely and
will route directly from your application to the intended destination. Only valid if `capture-mode` is `proxy`
and `proxy-type` is `transparent`, ignored otherwise.

- Example: `sidecar.speedscale.com/ignore-dst-ips: "10.10.0.40,10.200.10.0/24"`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/ignore-dst-hosts`

Comma separated list of hostnames whose traffic should be **excluded** from the outbound traffic captured by
the sidecar. Outbound requests to these destinations will bypass the proxy entirely and will route directly
from your application to the intended destination. Only valid if `capture-mode` is `proxy` and `proxy-type` is
`transparent`, ignored otherwise.

:::caution
`iptables` performs a DNS lookup when adding hostnames to rules and only does so **once** when the rule is
added. DNS changes that modify a host's source IP address will cause its traffic to no longer bypass the
sidecar.
:::

- Example: `sidecar.speedscale.com/ignore-dst-hosts: "example.com,mysvc.internal"`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/ignore-loopback`

If set to `true`, any traffic whose target is the loopback interface `lo`. This has the effect of discarding
pod-local traffic **AND** [port forwarded](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/port-forward-access-application-cluster/)
traffic. Only valid when `capture-mode` is `proxy` and `proxy-type` is `transparent`, ignored otherwise.

- Accepted Values:
  - `true`
  - `false` (default)

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/track-loopback`

If set to `true`, instructs the sidecar to track and redirect outbound traffic based on its destination
interface, specifically the loopback interface `lo`. Outbound traffic on `lo` will be redirected to
`proxy-in-port`, while all other traffic is redirected to `proxy-out-port` as normal. Only valid when
`capture-mode` is `proxy` and `proxy-type` is `transparent`, ignored otherwise.

:::tip
Enable this setting if you need to capture [port forwarded](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/port-forward-access-application-cluster/)
traffic.
:::

- Accepted Values:
  - `true`
  - `false` (default)

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/cpu-limit`

CPU resource limit value for the sidecar container. Refer to
[CPU resource units](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#meaning-of-cpu)
for more information about resource limits.

- Default: unset
- Recommended Value: `2`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/cpu-request`

CPU resource request value for the sidecar container. Refer to
[CPU resource units](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#meaning-of-cpu)
for more information about resource limits.

- Default: 10m
- Recommended Value: `10m`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/memory-limit`

Memory resource limit value for the sidecar container. Refer to
[Memory resource units](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#meaning-of-memory)
for more information about resource limits.

- Default: unset
- Recommended value: `1Gi`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/memory-request`

Memory resource request value for the sidecar container. Refer to
[Memory resource units](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#meaning-of-memory)
for more information about resource limits.

- Default: 32Mi
- Recommended value: `32Mi`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/kube-api-support`

When set to `true`, the sidecar will be configured to proxy and capture requests to the Kubernetes API. This
feature is disabled by default and requires that `tls-out` is enabled. Use this if your application makes
requests to the Kubernetes API that you want to observe and/or replay.

- Accepted Values:
  - `true`
  - `false` (default)

Commit message:

Add reference for ignoring tcp ports

docs/reference/_sidecar-annotations.mdx, after:

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/inject`

Add the sidecar to your: deployment, job, stateful set or daemon set.

- Accepted Values:
  - `true`
  - `false` (default)

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/insert-init-first`

Add Speedscale's init container as the first in the list on the target workload.

- Accepted Values:
  - `true`
  - `false` (default)

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/capture-mode`

Sidecar capture mode. The only supported value is `proxy` (default)

- Accepted Values
  - `proxy` (default)

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/capture-node-traffic`

Configure inbound traffic originating from underlying Kubernetes node on which a pod is running to be routed
through the proxy. The default behavior is to ignore inbound Kubernetes node traffic (e.g. readiness and
liveness checks). Only valid if `capture-mode` is `proxy` and `proxy-type` is `transparent`, ignored
otherwise.

- Accepted Values:
  - `true`
  - `false` (default)

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/host-resolution`

Configure how the sidecar determines a hostname for requests to IP addresses for which there is no clear way
to determine the target host, such as undecrypted TLS and unknown protocols. By default, the sidecar uses a
`smart` host resolution mode that maps IP addresses to hostnames based on observed DNS A record requests.
Alternatively, if set to `standard`, host resolution is done with a DNS PTR record query. Setting this to
`none` will disable automatic host resolution.

:::caution Important
Using `standard` mode host resolution is not guaranteed to discover a hostname for an IP address nor is
it guaranteed to be accurate if it does, as it requires a PTR record to exist for the address.
:::

- Accepted Values:
  - `smart` (default)
  - `standard`
  - `none`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/proxy-type`

Type of proxy the sidecar should operate as. Only valid if `capture-mode` is `proxy`, ignored otherwise. See
[proxy modes](/setup/sidecar/proxy-modes/) for more information on how each mode functions.

- Accepted Values:
  - `transparent` (default)
  - `reverse`
  - `forward`
  - `dual`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/proxy-protocol`

Set the protocol clients should use when connecting to the sidecar when operating in one of `reverse`,
`forward`, or `dual` proxy types. This setting is ignored if `proxy-type` is `transparent`. See
[proxy modes](/setup/sidecar/proxy-modes/) for more information.

- Accepted Values:
  - `tcp` (only valid for `reverse` proxies)
  - `http` (default)
  - `socks`
  - `tcp:http` (only valid for `dual` proxies)
  - `tcp:socks` (only valid for `dual` proxies)

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/proxy-host`

Sets the host to where the sidecar should forward inbound traffic. This is only valid when `capture-mode` is
set to `proxy` and if `proxy-type` is either `reverse` or `dual`. Ignored otherwise.

- Default: `localhost`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/proxy-port`

Sets the port to where the sidecar should forward inbound traffic. This is only valid when `capture-mode` is
set to `proxy` and if `proxy-type` is either `reverse` or `dual`. Ignored otherwise.

- Default: `80`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/proxy-in-port`

Sets the listening port exposed by the sidecar for proxying inbound traffic. Only valid when operating as a
reverse proxy with proxy types `transparent`, `reverse`, and `dual`.

- Default: `4143`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/proxy-out-port`

Sets the listening port exposed by the sidecar for proxying outbound traffic. Only valid when operating as a
forward proxy with proxy types `transparent`, `forward`, and `dual`.

- Default: `4140`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/tls-out`

Enables or disables TLS outbound interception and unwrapping. If disabled, encrypted traffic will not be
viewable in the Speedscale UI. See [TLS](/setup/sidecar/tls/) for more information.

- Accepted Values:
  - `true`
  - `false` (default)

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/tls-in-secret`

Kubernetes [TLS secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/#tls-secrets) containing
the TLS private key and public certificate that should be used for inbound client requests. Setting this
enables inbound TLS interception and unwrapping. See [TLS](/setup/sidecar/tls/) for more information.

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/tls-in-private`

Filename of the TLS private key used when `tls-in-secret` is configured. Ignored otherwise.

- Default: `tls.key`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/tls-in-public`

Filename of the TLS public certificate used when `tls-in-secret` is configured. Ignored otherwise.

- Default: `tls.crt`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/tls-mutual-secret`

Kubernetes [TLS secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/#tls-secrets) containing the
client TLS private key and public certificate that should be used for outbound requests requiring mutual TLS.
Do not set this unless your application uses mutual TLS. See [TLS](/setup/sidecar/tls/) for more information.

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/tls-mutual-private`

Filename of the TLS private key used when `tls-mutual-secret` is configured. Ignored otherwise.

- Default: `tls.key`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/tls-mutual-public`

Filename of the TLS public certificate used when `tls-mutual-secret` is configured. Ignored otherwise.

- Default: `tls.crt`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/ignore-src-ips`

Comma separated list of inbound IPv4 addresses or IPv4 CIDR blocks that should be **excluded** from the
traffic captured by the sidecar. Inbound requests from these sources will bypass the proxy entirely and
will route directly to your application. Only valid if `capture-mode` is `proxy` and `proxy-type` is
`transparent`, ignored otherwise.

- Example: `sidecar.speedscale.com/ignore-src-ips: "10.10.0.40,10.200.10.0/24"`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/ignore-src-hosts`

Comma separated list of hostnames whose traffic should be **excluded** from the traffic captured by the
sidecar. Inbound requests from these sources will bypass the proxy entirely and will route directly to
your application. Only valid if `capture-mode` is `proxy` and `proxy-type` is `transparent`, ignored
otherwise.

:::caution
`iptables` performs a DNS lookup when adding hostnames to rules and only does so **once** when the rule is
added. DNS changes that modify a host's source IP address will cause its traffic to no longer bypass the
sidecar.
:::

- Example: `sidecar.speedscale.com/ignore-src-hosts: "example.com,mysvc.internal"`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/ignore-inbound-ports`

Comma separated list of port numbers whose traffic should be **excluded** from the traffic captured by the
sidecar. Inbound requests to these ports will bypass the proxy entirely and will route directly to your
application. Only valid if `capture-mode` is `proxy` and `proxy-type` is `transparent`, ignored otherwise.

- Example: `sidecar.speedscale.com/ignore-inbound-ports: "443,8888"

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/ignore-dst-ips`

Comma separated list of outbound IPv4 addresses or IPv4 CIDR blocks that should be **excluded** from the
traffic captured by the sidecar. Outbound requests to these destinations will bypass the proxy entirely and
will route directly from your application to the intended destination. Only valid if `capture-mode` is `proxy`
and `proxy-type` is `transparent`, ignored otherwise.

- Example: `sidecar.speedscale.com/ignore-dst-ips: "10.10.0.40,10.200.10.0/24"`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/ignore-dst-hosts`

Comma separated list of hostnames whose traffic should be **excluded** from the outbound traffic captured by
the sidecar. Outbound requests to these destinations will bypass the proxy entirely and will route directly
from your application to the intended destination. Only valid if `capture-mode` is `proxy` and `proxy-type` is
`transparent`, ignored otherwise.

:::caution
`iptables` performs a DNS lookup when adding hostnames to rules and only does so **once** when the rule is
added. DNS changes that modify a host's source IP address will cause its traffic to no longer bypass the
sidecar.
:::

- Example: `sidecar.speedscale.com/ignore-dst-hosts: "example.com,mysvc.internal"`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/ignore-outbound-ports`

Comma separated list of port numbers whose traffic should be **excluded** from the traffic captured by the
sidecar. Outbound requests to these ports will bypass the proxy entirely and will route directly from your
application to the intended destination. Only valid if `capture-mode` is `proxy` and `proxy-type` is
`transparent`, ignored otherwise.

- Example: `sidecar.speedscale.com/ignore-outbound-ports: "27017"

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/ignore-loopback`

If set to `true`, any traffic whose target is the loopback interface `lo`. This has the effect of discarding
pod-local traffic **AND** [port forwarded](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/port-forward-access-application-cluster/)
traffic. Only valid when `capture-mode` is `proxy` and `proxy-type` is `transparent`, ignored otherwise.

- Accepted Values:
  - `true`
  - `false` (default)

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/track-loopback`

If set to `true`, instructs the sidecar to track and redirect outbound traffic based on its destination
interface, specifically the loopback interface `lo`. Outbound traffic on `lo` will be redirected to
`proxy-in-port`, while all other traffic is redirected to `proxy-out-port` as normal. Only valid when
`capture-mode` is `proxy` and `proxy-type` is `transparent`, ignored otherwise.

:::tip
Enable this setting if you need to capture [port forwarded](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/port-forward-access-application-cluster/)
traffic.
:::

- Accepted Values:
  - `true`
  - `false` (default)

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/cpu-limit`

CPU resource limit value for the sidecar container. Refer to
[CPU resource units](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#meaning-of-cpu)
for more information about resource limits.

- Default: unset
- Recommended Value: `2`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/cpu-request`

CPU resource request value for the sidecar container. Refer to
[CPU resource units](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#meaning-of-cpu)
for more information about resource limits.

- Default: 10m
- Recommended Value: `10m`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/memory-limit`

Memory resource limit value for the sidecar container. Refer to
[Memory resource units](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#meaning-of-memory)
for more information about resource limits.

- Default: unset
- Recommended value: `1Gi`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/memory-request`

Memory resource request value for the sidecar container. Refer to
[Memory resource units](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#meaning-of-memory)
for more information about resource limits.

- Default: 32Mi
- Recommended value: `32Mi`

---

### `sidecar.speedscale.com/kube-api-support`

When set to `true`, the sidecar will be configured to proxy and capture requests to the Kubernetes API. This
feature is disabled by default and requires that `tls-out` is enabled. Use this if your application makes
requests to the Kubernetes API that you want to observe and/or replay.

- Accepted Values:
  - `true`
  - `false` (default)
